The idea behind the game is to spend more time playing and less time going through the rules. The central dynamic of target number (TN) allows the GM to quickly factor in difficulty. TN modifiers are circumstantial. This also limits metagaming because it's not written down; it's in the GM's head. The key is that modifiers are determined by the GM, not by specific rules. This streamlines play.

The following dynamic is the Basic Roll.

Add score from stat plus skill plus a modifier (this could be from a Talent).

You roll the BR against TN. You can modify the BR by activating Talents.

TN is situational. This game is a d20 system. The score can be a (-4) to (+4) modifier in each category. These numbers interact to create a + or - to the d20 roll to a base target number (TN) that you have to tie or beat. The GM assigns the TN, but it starts at 11.

Default TN ladder: 9 Easy - 11 Standard - 13 Tricky - 15 Hard - 17 Heroic - 19 Legendary.

The average TN depends on the tier the players are in. Tier 1 = 11, Tier 2 = 13, Tier 3 = 17.

The game mechanics are flexible. This favors letting the story dictate the game. Rules are guidelines. If Heroes want to try something, let them. You can easily assign a TN and let the creativity flow.

As a GM, look for opportunities to say yes. The rules shouldn't get in the way of good roleplaying. RPGs exist to allow us to stretch the boundaries of imagination. Encourage it!

Game Concepts

So what happens with an astounding success or failure known as crits? One is always a critical failure. The GM adjudicates the outcome. Some of the most exciting sessions I have been involved in resulted from a critical failure. This may result in a minor incident or issue. For instance, in play, a Hero made an Observation check and rolled a "1". This resulted in failing to see a particularly dangerous adversary.

Critical success happens on a natural 20. If it is in combat, the Hero deals maximum damage and is granted a free attack. NPCs can't have critical success in combat. A natural 20 is always a critical success. A natural one is still a critical miss. Out of combat, a critical miss would be a catastrophic failure. For instance, instead of sneaking quietly, you make a ton of noise. A crit on a skill check should result in a better-than-expected outcome.

TN is either simple or complex. A simple roll is binary: rolling the TN or higher succeeds, and rolling below the TN fails. For clarity, write this as "TN 14" instead of the shorthand "14S." A TN 14 complex roll may be listed as "TN 14 complex" or "14C." A complex roll adds successes for every 2 beyond the TN. Use a simple roll if you only want to note success or failure. A complex test answers the question of how well the Hero succeeded.

The last type of check is an opposed roll. The Hero and target roll using the relevant skill. The highest number wins.

This game is designed to promote role-playing over power gaming. Play what you want. If it makes sense, you can choose what works better for roleplaying. Let's say you want to use a slingshot. You would do the same damage (+d4) as a pistol. All players are on an even footing. What makes the game interesting is how you play it.

The multiversal nature of the game means that skills are very general. The game also strives for simplicity, but with enough variables to keep it interesting.

Attack Rolls

Attack = BR + Weapon modifier vs target's Defense. If you meet or beat Defense, the attack hits. Then roll your weapon's damage dice + relevant Stat + weapon enhancement.

Defenses

Defense

12 + Defense Bonus + Defense

Weapon & physical attacks

Resilience

Defense bonus + Str + Dex + End

Grapples, knockback, physical hazards

Ego

Defense bonus + Int + Edu + Cha

Fear, charm, illusion, mental effects

The game runs on a device known as the Basic Framework. The BF applies to allocating experience points and activating talents. It represents the cost. The BF runs from (-4) to (+4).

The following is an example of the BF.
