Welcome to the Talented Multiverse

Overview

Be the best version of yourself.

Talents are the engine that runs the game. You use them to define how your character interacts with the world. They could be cyberwear. They can represent spells you cast. Some could represent better living through superior chemistry: drugs.

Cost and Force

Energy Cost: Talents are paid with energy based on Force (F). Force 1 (F1) costs 1 energy, Force 2 (F2) costs 4 energy, Force 3 (F3) costs 9 energy, and Force 4 (F4) costs 16 energy.

One-Shot Cost: Some Talents can be used for one roll or one immediate effect. A one-shot costs less energy: Force 1 costs 1 energy, Force 2 costs 2 energy, Force 3 costs 4 energy, and Force 4 costs 8 energy.

Per Force: If a rule says "per Force," multiply the listed effect by the Force used. For example, +1d4 per Force gives +1d4 at F1 and +2d4 at F2.

XP Cost: Any player can buy a talent for 5 XP per talent. Players also gain Talents as their level increases.

Attack Stats: Melee attacks use Strength. Ranged attacks use Dexterity.

Talent Types

Technical: These talents are derived from technological/mechanical means. I could use the Fly talent as technology by calling it a Jet Pack as an item.

Magical: These are inherent Talents. Many act like spells, such as a fireball. I could take Fly with a magical ring as an item.

Species: These are Talents derived from one's Species.

Archetype: These are Talents specific to the Archetype. For instance, the Barbarian Ferocious Attack.

Using Talents

Activation: When a Talent is used, it is activated.

Force Limit: You can only use a Force according to your level.

Duration: Many Talents operate for 5 minutes after the conflict ends. Begin another combat before the five minutes end, and the clock resets. Heroes must decide whether to move quickly and keep the edge given by their Talents, or slow down to search for loot and avoid traps.

Resistance: Some attacks use Athletics or Ego to resist. You use Athletics/Ego + level for defense. It is an 11 + Ego + level for defense against a TN.

Multiple Talents: You can use several Talents at the same time.

Energy Sources

Talents are powered by energy. This reflects the idea that energy is a limited resource.

Technical Energy: This represents a limit imposed by literal energy: batteries, electricity, or a finite number of charges. I could take Heal using a med kit. Energy would represent a number of uses.

Magical Energy: This is the innate amount of magic you can power up. Heal would be limited by that innate power.

Some settings may eliminate certain talents. For instance, in a medieval setting, Hacking doesn't exist. Any time a setting negatively affects a talent's functioning, the player may sub in another talent. Can be combined with alertness.

Combat Talents:

Combat Talents act as modifiers.

These talents further define how you operate during combat. See Archetypes for recommendations. These are self-only.

Once activated, a Combat Talent is active until the end of combat + 5 minutes. You can end a Talent as a free action.

One-shots: You can activate a Talent for one roll or one immediate use. This does not count toward your Talent slots. One-shot costs are Force 1 = 1 energy, Force 2 = 2 energy, Force 3 = 4 energy, and Force 4 = 8 energy.

Slots: Slots represent the number of sustained combat Talents you can have active at the same time. You are allotted one slot at Level Zero and additional slots at Levels 4 and 7.

Free Talents: A free Talent costs no energy and everyone can use it without purchasing it. It still counts as a slot unless it is used as a one-shot.

Force Limit: You cannot activate or purchase Talents of a Force higher than your level allows.

Ablative Armor:
Description: Decrease incoming damage.
Mechanic: Reduce 1 point of damage per attack per point of Force. Activate by touching the target. For 1 additional energy, activate at short range; for 2 additional energy, at medium range; and for 3 additional energy, at long range. This range choice lasts until the end of combat + 5 minutes.
Targets: For every 2 additional energy, affect one additional target.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: move action.

Aim

Description: You believe in precision attacks: one shot. One kill.
Mechanic: Player modifies weapon by +1d4 per Force used. Maximum Force 2.

Alertness

Description: You are hyper-aware of your surroundings. You saw the fight starting before anyone else and were ready to act quickly.

Mechanic: Initiative modifier of +1d4 per Force used. You can choose to use this after you roll. You can activate this during combat to improve your initiative score. Must remain activated to continue with the bonus. You can activate during combat to get an advantage in initiative. This triggers a reaction when used at the start or during combat.

Ambush

Description: Catch your opponent by surprise to gain an advantage.

Mechanic: If you attack before your enemy has its first turn, or if a party member is attacking the same target, add +1d4 per Force used. Split the bonus between the attack roll and damage. Maximum Force 2. Can't be combined with Ferocious Attack or Aim.

AOE:
Description: These are area-of-effect weapons. Using Multi Attack can simulate this as well. Range is based on the weapon system employing the weapon: thrown (50), medium (200), long (+200).
There are 4 shapes of the AOE.
Ground zero - you drop the AOE at your feet, but not on you. Doesn't require a to-hit roll. Affects all targets in adjacent squares around you.
Square - You aim an explosive at a square with a TN of 14. If you miss, the device scatters. It misses by 5 feet for every 2 points you miss on the roll. If a device misses, roll a d6. On a 1 or 2, miss a square to the left. 3 and 4 miss up the middle. 5 or 6 misses to the right. Odd on the roll indicates a shorted throw, even if it went too far. The square the explosive lands on and the surrounding 9 squares take full damage, halved on a successful 15T Athletic test.
Line - affects 9 squares in front of you. No roll needed to hit.
Cone - hits the first square in front of you, then widens to 2 squares, 3 squares, and 4 squares.

Bring the Pain

Description: You are skilled at making damaging attacks.

Mechanic: Force 2 (F2) allows a reroll of all damage dice. The attacker can choose what roll to use. Can be used after the dice are rolled.

Buffs:
Description: Buffs are Talents that temporarily improve a target's skill. They last one hour, use an attack action, and have a maximum of Force 2 (F2). Buffs cannot stack with each other; only one Buff can be active on a target at a time. One-shots do not count toward this limit.
Mechanic: Buffs are activated by touching the target. For 1 additional energy, you can activate a Buff at short range; for 2 additional energy, at medium range; and for 3 additional energy, at long range. A Buff can also be purchased as self-only, which means it uses the one-shot energy cost and only affects you.

Buff Option: Genius
Description: Your mind processes information with incredible speed and accuracy.
Mechanic: The target improves Knowledge by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Heightened Awareness
Description: Your senses sharpen to extraordinary levels, allowing you to notice hidden details, danger, and subtle clues that others overlook.
Mechanic: The target improves Observation by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Intimidating Presence
Description: Your sheer physical presence radiates menace, making threats impossible to ignore.
Mechanic: You intimidate as a subset of Influence, using Strength as the stat. Add +1d6 per Force used to intimidate.

Buff Option: Pathfinder
Description: You become an excellent tracker, survivalist, and wilderness guide.
Mechanic: The target improves Outdoors by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Shadowstep
Description: Your movements become silent and instinctive, making it easier to avoid detection.
Mechanic: The target improves Sneak by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Silver Tongue
Description: Every word carries confidence and charisma. You effortlessly persuade, negotiate, and inspire others.
Mechanic: The target improves Influence by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Technical Expertise
Description: Your understanding of machines, electronics, and complex systems reaches exceptional levels.
Mechanic: The target improves Technology by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Transporter
Description: Whether behind the wheel, at the controls, or in the pilot's seat, your reflexes and instincts make every vehicle feel like an extension of yourself.
Mechanic: The target improves Vehicle by +1d4 per Force used.

Buff Option: Trap Sense
Description: You instinctively notice dangerous mechanisms and understand how to disable them, regardless of whether they are technological or magical.
Mechanic: The target improves Observation for traps by +1d6 per Force used and Technology to remove traps by +1d6 per Force used. This works at any tech level.

Buff Option: Truthsense
Description: You instinctively recognize hesitation, deception, and hidden motives.
Mechanic: Add +1d6 per Force used to Observation checks made to determine truth.

Change of Fortune:
Description: Grant the target the ability to receive a one-time bonus as a modifier to d20 rolls. Can be taken to modify after rolling.
Mechanic: Targets can change a TN or Defense up or down by 1d4 x Force x 2. This is a one-time buff. Pay energy equal to the Force used for one target. Pay 1 energy for each additional target.
Duration: 8 hours
Action: Attack action.

Close Quarter Combat

Description: You have mastered the use of ranged combat against adjacent targets.

Mechanic: Eliminate the penalty for point-blank range. Force 1 (F1).

Weapon Smuggler:
Description: You excel at hiding weapons on your body or slipping them through security.
Mechanic: Add your Sneak skill to the weapon's concealment TN. Spend Force 1 (F1) per weapon to roll +1d4 and add it to that concealment TN for each affected weapon.
Duration: 8 hours.
Action: 1 minute

Control Drone:
Description: Player has a free drone useful for surveillance. A drone that acts in combat is a simple proxy useful for ranged attacks. Mechanics: Force 1 (F1) to control the drone. Hero takes damage incurred by the drone. Vehicles controlled as a drone gain +1d4 per Force used to all rolls, up to Force 2 (F2), including Defense. Drones can be operated out to 10 miles per Force used. These drones provide surveillance only. At F1, the drone is the size of a deck of cards and can be spotted with a TN 14 Observation check. At F2, the drone is the size of a fly and can be spotted with a TN 20 Observation check.
Cost: Attack action.
Duration: 8 hours

Counterstrike

Description: Make an immediate counterattack at an opponent who just hit you with a melee attack or an adjacent ranged attack.

Mechanics: Spend a Force 2 (F2) one-shot to make a free attack. Counts as a reaction.

Create Wall:
Description: Create a wall that takes up a 10 space. The wall is 6 thick
Mechanic: Destroy a 10-foot section by doing damage to the wall. Attacks automatically hit. Each wall section has 20 HP per Force used. Create 2 sections on activation, plus 1 additional section per point of energy. The wall can make a 90-degree turn every 2 sections. Counts as cover. Once per casting.
Duration: 5 minutes
Action: attack.

Critical Hit

Description: You turn 19 into a critical hit.

Mechanics: When the player rolls a natural 19, it is a critical hit if the roll would hit. This is not automatic. Force 2 (F2). Can be used as a reaction by paying the F2 one-shot cost to make it a critical hit.

Defensive strike

Description: You attack cautiously. This could represent attacking from cover.
Mechanic: Increase your Defense (+1d4) and your attack by (-1d4). This is a free talent and costs no energy. If a Hero ends their move behind cover, add (+d4) to Defense.

Detect life:
Description: Detect the location of living organisms within the spell radius.
Mechanic: Detect living creatures within 100 feet. Works through walls and debris. Force 1 (F1).
Duration: 10 minutes
Cost: move action.

Detect Talents:
Description: Allows the player to observe talents.
Mechanic: This power has a range of Force squared x 10 feet. A level 2 force talent would cost 4 energy and have a range of 40 feet. This talent uses observation skill. This talent helps identify the talents present and their effect.
Duration: 10 minutes
Cost: attack action

Disarm:
Description: Using a ranged or melee weapon, you cause the target to drop their weapon.
Mechanic: Force 2 (F2) one-shot only. Add +4 Defense to the target. On a successful hit, the target must make a TN 14 Athletics check or drop the weapon. Add +1 to the Athletics test per success.

Disguise self:
Description: Target may look like someone else. Target cannot change size, but may change Species within that restriction. Can't conceal weapons.
Mechanics: Touch target. Force 2 (F2). Others must make a TN 22 Ego save.
Duration: 8 hours
Cost: 1 minute

Displacement:
Description: You are not where you seem. Successful attacks miss 50% of the time.
Mechanic: Force 3 (F3). When an attack hits, roll a d6. On a 1-3, you are hit. On a 4-6, you are missed.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: Attack action

Drunken Attack

Description: You move in unpredictable fits and starts, putting your target at a disadvantage. Combined with charge, it eliminates the need for a straight line to attack.

Mechanic: Force 2 (F2). Your target can not be set for the charge. You only need to move 10, but not in a straight line.

End Talent:
Description: This power works to end an already existing effect or stop a talent from being used
Mechanics: The player succeeds if he has a higher force level. 2 beats 1, etc. Level 4 talents can't be ended. The countering player knows the opponent's force level. This counts as a reaction.
Duration: one use
Cost: reaction

Escape:
Description: Leave a threatened zone safely.
Mechanic: Force 1 (F1). Not subject to reactive attack.

Sar sense:
Description - When using this talent, choose whether to hear or see at a distance. Players can pay for both simultaneously. The power allows the user to project the spell's distance through any barrier and use the sense. Observation is used.
Mechanics - This power has a range of Force squared x 100 feet. A Force 2 Talent costs 4 energy and has a range of 400 feet. This Talent uses the Observation skill. Once active in combat, you can use the skill action to make an Observation check.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: attack action.

Ferocious Attack

Description: You fight with emotion. This combat style is a reckless, all-out attack.

Mechanics: The player buffs the damage by +1d4 per Force used. It can't be combined with Bring the Pain. Maximum Force 2.

Find secret doors:
Description: Discover hidden doors and passages.
Mechanic: Find all secret doors and passages in a room or corridor by spending Force 1 (F1).
Duration: one hour
Action: Skill action.

Flash/Bang:
Description: Victims are subjected to extreme sound, blast wave, and flash. This causes disorientation.
Mechanic: Throw the effect like an AOE. Target loses its next turn unless they make a TN 16 Resilience save. If the target makes a successful Resilience save, they can resume their turn as usual. Cost is Force + 3 energy, so Force 2 (F2) costs 7 energy. Minimum Force 2 and access to Force 2 Talents required. The effect can exclude 1 target for every 1 energy paid.
Duration: 1 turn.
Cost: attack action.

Fly:
Description: Take to the air in combat or travel overland outside combat.
Minor Version: At Force 1 (F1) or Force 2 (F2), fly in combat at 15 feet + 5 feet per Force used. Duration is combat + 5 minutes.
Major Version: At Force 3 (F3), fly outside combat at the same speed as the party for 8 hours. In combat, this grants a 30-foot fly speed until combat ends, then reverts to the overland version.
Cost: Move action.

Follow-on Attack:
Description: When you drop your opponent, you may attack another enemy in an adjacent square.
Mechanic: Pay the Force 2 (F2) one-shot cost. The melee attack does base damage only. Available as a one-shot.

Frag:
Description: This is the Big Bang. Fragments explode over the area, causing damage. The following types of damage are possible: standard frag, fire, electricity, acid, and ice.
Mechanic: Targets take +2d6 damage per Force used. Cost is Force + 3 energy, so Force 2 (F2) costs 7 energy. Minimum Force 2 and access to Force 2 Talents required. The effect can exclude 1 target for every 1 energy paid.
Duration: instant
Cost: Attack action.

Goad

Description: You hurl insults at your enemy until they attack only you.

Mechanic: Hero makes an attack using Influence versus the target's Ego. For example, if I have an Ego of (4), the Hero must beat a 15. (Ego + 11) On a successful attack, you cause the target to forgo all other enemies and attack just you with a Strength-based attack. The target will move toward you directly, even if it results in a Reactive Attack. Force 2 (F2). Each turn, the target must succeed on a TN 14 Ego roll to end the Talent.

Grand Illusion:
Description: Create an illusion with audio, visual, thermal, and olfactory components based on force. An illusion can occupy a 10 cube.
Mechanic: Force 1 (F1) creates audio or visual. Force 2 (F2) creates audio and visual. Force 3 (F3) adds thermal details. Force 4 (F4) adds smell. Targets disbelieve the illusion with a TN 12 Observation check, increased by twice the Force used, so an F3 illusion requires a TN 18 save. You use your move action to manipulate the illusion.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: Attack action.

Grapple:
Description: You prevent the target from taking an action, and after the first round, start doing damage.
Mechanic: Make a successful attack roll. The attacker and target then make an opposed Athletics roll. If the attacker wins, the target is grappled. Each turn thereafter, the Attacker rolls against the target's Athletics. If the Attacker wins, they also do Unarmed Combat damage. The Target can try to evade the grapple on its turn as an Attack action. If successful, the target can then use the remaining actions.

Hacker:
Description: You are able to manipulate the private net. You use your technology skills.
Mechanic: This represents an item used to hack. It could be straight from your brain, a computer, or a data device. This Talent grants +1d4 per Force used, maximum Force 2, to all D20 rolls during the hack. Force 1 (F1) is required to use it. This represents hacking when it is directly linked to the system or done wirelessly. You can also use other Talents when hacking. All attacks in the Net use Range Weapons skills. There are no ranges. You use your HP. When you drop below 0 HP, you are kicked off the net and incapacitated for d6 rounds.
Duration: 8 hours. (Special note: in environments where this talent can't be used, the player may temporarily substitute another Talent.)

Heal:
Description: Restore hit points to one or more friendly targets.
Minor Version: At Force 1 (F1) or higher, restore +2d6 hit points per Force used to one touched target.
Major Version: At Force 2 (F2) or higher, heal all friendly targets in short range for +1d6 + 1 hit point per Force used.
Range: Touch by default. For 1 additional energy, activate at short range; for 2 additional energy, at medium range; and for 3 additional energy, at long range.
Action: Heroes can make an attack action and also activate a healing Talent as a move action.
Out of Combat: Healing HP outside of combat restores the maximum amount, but takes 1 minute to complete per activated healing Talent.
Targets: For every 2 additional energy, affect one additional target with the minor version.
Duration: immediate
Cost: move action.

Illusion:
Description: Illusion Talents can be bought as self-only and then are paid for like one-shots. For 1 additional energy, you can activate at short range; 2 energy at medium range; and 3 energy at long range.

Implant Thought:
Description: Give a short order (run away, drop your weapons, let us pass, do nothing). Target follows the implanted thought for the duration of the talent.
Mechanics: Melee attack unless range increments are paid for. Target is aware of the attack unless the attacker pays an additional 2 energy. Target must make a TN 14 Ego roll to end the effect. Target rolls each turn in combat or every minute outside of combat. Force 2 (F2).
Duration: 5 minutes.
Action: Attack action

Indestructible:
Description: You are harder to kill.
Mechanic: Any time you are dropped below 0 HP, you immediately stabilize at +1d4 HP and the Talent ends for that target. Costs Force 2 (F2) plus 1 energy per target. Activate by touching the target. For 1 additional energy, activate at short range; for 2 additional energy, at medium range; and for 3 additional energy, at long range.
Duration: 8 hours.
Cost: Move action.

Invisibility:
Description: You and any objects you carry become invisible. The target can still be heard.
Minor Version: At Force 2 (F2), others can see you with a TN 26 Observation check. The Talent ends when you make an attack action.
Major Version: At Force 3 (F3), others can see you with a TN 30 Observation check. Making an attack does not end the Talent.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: Attack action

Ki Body

Description: You turn your body into a killing weapon. An unarmed attack does more damage.

Mechanics: Do d6 damage at Force 1 (F1) and d8 damage at Force 2 (F2).

Long shot

Description: Reach out and touch someone. Increase the range increment by 1.

Mechanic: Pay Force 2 (F2) to increase weapon range by 1 step. Pay Force 3 (F3) to increase the range by 2 steps. Long range becomes long range x2.

Melee Reach

Description: Extend a melee attack beyond adjacent squares without provoking a reactive attack.
Minor Version: At Force 1 (F1) or Force 2 (F2), make a melee attack up to 5 feet per Force used. You end in the space you attacked from.
Major Version: At Force 3 (F3), make a melee attack against a target up to 50 feet away. You move in a line, are not subject to a reactive attack, and end the attack where you started.

Mind Read:
Description: Read the surface thoughts of the target.
Mechanic: Roll a ranged attack versus Ego. Force 1 (F1). The target knows of the attack unless the player spends 2 energy to make it subtle. Talent requires 1 minute of concentration. Ask one question.
Cost: Move action
Duration: 10 minutes

Multi-attack:

Description: Use this when you want to attack more than once. This can simulate a shotgun, 2-handed weapon, double-tap, burst, or automatic fire, or AOE Talent. You can hit more than one target, but they must be within 10 of one another. This doesn't stop anyone from firing their weapons on auto or two-weapon fighting. It just means you only hit once.
Mechanic: Make 2 attacks and roll for each at Force 3 (F3). Make 3 attacks at Force 4 (F4).

Multiple Image:
Description: Create images of yourself in combat.
Mechanic: Create +1d4 images per Force used. Each image uses your Defense to be hit. Each attack that hits may hit you or an image. Roll randomly to determine. An image disappears when it is hit. Maximum Force 2.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: Attack action.

Offensive Attack

Description: You sacrifice your safety for a better chance to hit.
Mechanic: Reduce your Defense by (-1d4) and increase attack by (+1d4). This is a free Talent.

Parry

Description: Increase Defense vs. a melee attack.

Mechanic: Increase Defense by +1d6 per Force used. Maximum Force 1. Counts against range weapons within 5 feet of the character. Use a reaction to activate.

Push

Description: An attack that can be combined with the attack roll. The attack moves the target away from the caster.

Mechanic: Move the target away by +3d6 feet per Force used.

Reduce Movement:
Description: The area around your target turns to quicksand, making movement difficult. Effective on any terrain. Used to slow down the target,
Mechanic: Make a standard attack. If you hit, the target loses 50% movement per Force used. Maximum Force 2. Range long.
Duration: combat + five minutes
Cost: Attack action.

Regeneration:
Description: Heal hit points.
Mechanic: Heal +1d4 hit points per Force used each turn, up to full. You can't stack this Talent with itself. Activate by touching the target. For 1 additional energy, activate at short range; for 2 additional energy, at medium range; and for 3 additional energy, at long range.
Self-Only: This Talent can be purchased as self-only. If it is, use the one-shot energy price and it only affects you.
Duration - combat + 5 minutes or until the target drops below 0 HP. Starts at Force 2 (F2).
Cost: move action

Run

Description: Increase your move.

Mechanics: As part of a move action, you may run an additional 3d6 feet per Force used.

Running Attack

Description: You are moving so fast that enemies have a harder time hitting you.

Mechanic: Any time you activate the Run Talent and move your full move, you increase Defense by +1d4 per Force used. Maximum Force 2.

Shapeshift:
Description: Change into an animal the size of a lion or smaller.
Mechanics: Using your own scores as the base, you may rearrange your physical scores at activation. You have a natural melee weapon (bite, claw, etc.) that works as a melee weapon (+1d8). Force 2 (F2). It has any Talents you have. If the form has special abilities, you would use the appropriate Talent. If you wanted to fly, you would activate it for the new form. Can pay one-shot costs if it is used only in animal form.
Duration: 8 hours.
Cost: attack action

Suppressive Fire:
Description: Lay down a field of fire.
Mechanic: Costs a move and a combat action. Using a firearm, send a flurry of rounds downrange. The area is suppressed from your spot to the end of the weapons range. The suppressed area is 10 wide. The length of suppression stops if it encounters an object in its path. Anyone who enters or is already in this pathway must make a TN 18 Resilience roll to avoid damage. If hit, the target's move ends, and they take (+1d6) damage. The player also has a (-1d6) modifier on attack rolls.

Tactical Commander:
Description: You are a commander of men. You direct your fellow Heroes in Combat to gain their max efficiency.
Mechanic: Add your Charisma score and (+1d4) to your initiative check. Use your initiative for the party. Not usable as a one-shot, but can be activated in later rounds of combat.

Telekinesis:
Description: Manipulate objects at a distance.
Mechanics: Range is 20 feet per Force used. Weight is 10 pounds per Force used. This allows you to make skill tests that manipulate an object within weight limits. For instance, pick locks/remove traps. You can't fire a weapon at range unless it's a throwback with an actual trigger. Minimum Force 2.

Teleport:
Description: Move instantly from one place to another, from short combat hops to long-distance travel.
Minor Version: At Force 1 (F1) or Force 2 (F2), teleport 40 feet + 10 feet per Force used as a move action. This does not provoke a reactive strike.
Mass Version: At Force 3 (F3), move targets up to 100 feet in combat. Pay 1 additional energy per extra person. If the target is an enemy, you must make a successful attack roll.
Major Version: At Force 3 (F3), teleport up to 100 miles outside combat. Pay 1 additional energy per Hero traveling with you.
Duration: once.
Cost: Move action for the minor version, attack action for the mass version, or 1 minute of uninterrupted concentration for the major version.

Vital Reserve:
Description: Increase the HP total of the player touched.
Mechanics: Increase HP by +2d4 + 1 per Force used. These hit points are used first. They can't be healed. Maximum Force 2. Activate by touching the target. For 1 additional energy, activate at short range; for 2 additional energy, at medium range; and for 3 additional energy, at long range.
Targets: For every 2 additional energy, affect one additional target.
Duration: combat + 5 minutes
Cost: Move action

Trip

Description: Cause the target to trip. It can be part of the attack.
Mechanic: Force 2 (F2). Target must make a TN 14 Resilience save or be tripped and gain the Prone condition. If four-legged or more than 8 feet tall, the target gets a +4 Defense bonus to avoid the trip.

Wallrunner:
Description: This talent allows for running up and down walls in Combat. You may end the turn on a surface other than the ground.
Mechanic: You can run your movement up walls. Force 2 (F2). Can't run on ceilings.
Duration: combat + five minutes
Cost: move action.
