The comprehensive Guide to
the Multiverse Adventurers
Guild
GM Edition
7/11/26
Author: Scott Bieniek
Edited by ChatGPT
Contact at multiverseadventurersguild@gmail.com
Welcome to the Gateway to Adventure!
"Play your own hero!"
Multiverse Adventurers Guild's Mission Statement:
To map and preserve timelines in flux.
The Guild has two jobs. Chart world histories and protect timelines.
The Guild is at odds with the Multiverse Preservation Society. For example, the Society believed T-Kat Uma of the Nima Prefecture was causing a divergent timeline, so they assassinated Him. The Guild felt T-Kat was central to the actual timeline, so they prevented the assassination.
Introduction
Welcome to the Multiverse! You can play a Hero from any time, setting, or era. Imagine a party comprising a superhero, a cowgirl, a cyborg, a medieval knight, and a Witch. Now imagine them being any Species you want. In 15 minutes, you could build that Hero and start playing. You will be a part of the Guild that explores the Multiverse.
Welcome to the Multiverse Adventurers Guild!
Gunny has your basic supplies and weapons. Then, see Dr. Orak'na. He'll get you that extra special gear!
How to Navigate the Rules.
There are 3 levels to play.
Basic quick start and play. Perfect for one shots or introductions to the game. You start at Level "0". Read the text to build a character. Level "0" is about learning game concepts, most importantly the basic roll. The GM interprets and explains rules as you go. It's important to listen to the Heroes concept and translate it into game terms. Explain the tutorial nature of the level. The Hero doesn't need to know any rules to start with or even read anything. Incorporate Talents when the Heroes might need them.
Campaign. Using Talents demonstrates how to use them and how they affect gameplay. Talents are a core concept. At this point, encourage your Heroes to at least read the combat Talents. Ask your Heroes about the cool things they want to do and introduce them to the particular Talent.
Advanced play. At this point, encourage your Heroes to read all the player material. Much of the material, in particular the section on Archetypes, will help advanced Heroes discover new character concepts. May consider starting at level 1 or higher.
Heroes can focus on playing in one setting or multiple settings.
The idea behind the game is to spend more time playing and less time going through the rules. The central dynamic of target number (TN) allows the GM to quickly factor in difficulty. TN modifiers are circumstantial. This also limits metagaming because it's not written down; it's in the GM's head. The key is that modifiers are determined by the GM, not by specific rules. This streamlines play.
The following dynamic is the Basic Roll.
Add score from stat plus skill plus a modifier(This could be from a Talent)
You roll the BR against TN. You can modify the BR by activating Talents.
TN is situational. This game is a d20 system. The score can be a (-4) to (+4) modifier in each category. These numbers interact to create a + or - to the d20 roll to a base target number (TN) that you have to tie or beat. The GM assigns the TN, but it starts at 11.
Default TN ladder: 9 Easy - 11 Standard - 13 Tricky - 15 Hard - 17 Heroic - 19 Legendary.
The average TN depends on the tier the players are in. Tier 1 = 11, Tier 2 = 13, Tier = 17.
The game mechanics are flexible. This favors letting the story dictate the game. Rules are guidelines. If Heroes want to try something, let them. You can easily assign a TN and let the creativity flow.
As a GM, look for opportunities to say yes. The rules shouldn't get in the way of good roleplaying. RPGs exist to allow us to stretch the boundaries of imagination. Encourage it!
Game Concepts
So what happens with an astounding success or failure known as crits? One is always a critical failure. The GM adjudicates the outcome. Some of the most exciting sessions I have been involved in resulted from a critical failure. This may result in a minor incident or issue. For instance in play a Hero made an observation check and rolled a "1". This resulted in failing to see a particularly dangerous adversary.
Critical success happens on a natural 20. If it is in combat, the Hero deals maximum damage and is granted a free attack. NPCs can't have critical success in combat. A natural 20 is always a critical success. A natural one is still a critical miss. Out of combat, a critical miss would be a catastrophic failure. For instance, instead of sneaking quietly, you make a ton of noise. A crit on a skill check should result in a better-than-expected outcome
TN is either simple (s) or complex ( c ). A simple roll is binary. Rolling a TN or higher yields success. Below TN is a failure. This is expressed as 14S. A TN 14 complex roll is listed as 14C. A complex roll adds successes for every 2 beyond the TN. Use a simple roll if you only want to note success or failure. A complex test answers the question of how well the Hero succeeded.
The last type of check is an opposed roll. The Hero and target roll using the relevant skill. The highest number wins.
This game is designed to promote role-playing over power gaming. Play what you want. If it makes sense, you can choose what works better for roleplaying. Let's say you want to use a slingshot. You would do the same damage (+d4) as a pistol. All players are on an even footing. What makes the game interesting is how you play it.
The multiversal nature of the game means that skills are very general. The game also strives for simplicity, but with enough variables to keep it intersting.
Items and Traits
These are purely narrative labels. They answer why you get the effect. They may change BR if the GM gives situational TN adjustments. Items and act as items or gear that explain stats and skill scores. A ring of strenghnth would be an Item. Traits work to describe characteristic of of things such as Species and Archetype the define Scores. A Giant with with a high streength sscore might explain that as a Trait of Giants.
In the game, you don't pay for Items. My weapon can be a Katana. My strength from a magic item. I could have reach as an Archetype. Your Items and Traits help define your character. Traits can also be from Species or Archetypes.
Also, bend and change rules to suit your campaign.
A final note. This game does not strive to be an accurate representation of reality. In most games, I cite reality as the benchmark. This game aims to use cinematic examples. For instance, my car caught on fire and burned to the ground with a full tank of gas. No explosion. Hollywood would have it explode. We want the Hollywood version. It's way more fun. Blending reality and fiction is the goal. When in doubt, go big. We should be asking ourselves what makes a better story, not what conforms to the rules.
You start with one Weapon Enhancement for Melee or Ranged: These will be listed as Damage die, Weapon Type, Special Rules, range, and examples.
Melee
d4
Unarmed
Automatic conceal
martial arts, brawling, boxing
d6
Dagger
Automatic conceal
weapon under 18" in length, dagger, switchblade, range weapon as a melee attack
d8
Sword
Conceal Observation 15S
weapon under 3', long sword, shortsword, axe, club
d10
Two-Handed Weapon
No conceal, (-2) Defense
Staff, Halberd, Great Axe, Great Sword
Range
d4
Pistol
Automatic Conceal
Rovolver, handgun, sling, slingshot
short range (60')
d6
Submachine Gun
Conceal Observation 15S
Uzi, Ingram, bow, crossbow
Medium range (120')
d8
Assault Rifle
Conceal Observation 12S, (-2) Defense
AR15, AK47, shotgun, hunting rifle
Long Range (200')
d10
Long Gun
no conceal
braced, (-2) Defense
Sniper Rifle, Machine Gun
Extreme Range (400')
Two-Weapon Fighting:
Melee - fight with 2 d6 weapons for d8 damage, same special rules of a d8 weapon
Range - 2 d4 weapons for d6 damage, same special rules as a d6 weapon
Improvised range weapon: d4-1.
Silencers - These increase the concealability by one step. A silencer on a pistol becomes Observation 15S. The damage decreases by one step. A sniper rifle would become a d8 weapon. A pistol becomes d4-1.
Concealment - Add the sneak skill to the TN for concealment. If you have a Sneak skill of (+2), you conceal an SMG on 17S.
The philosophy behind damage is that Heroes should be rewarded for fighting at Melee ranges because of the increased risk. Melee damage is slightly more serious than ranged damage.
Attack Rolls
Attack = BR + Weapon modifier vs target's Defense (Def) If you meet or beat Def, the attack hits. Then roll your weapon's damage dice + relevant Stat + weapon enhancement.
Defenses
Defense
12 + Defense Bonus + Defense
Weapon & physical attacks
Resiliance
Defense bonus +Str + Dex + End
Grapples, knockback, physical hazards
Ego
Defense bonus + Int + Edu + Cha
Fear, charm, illusion, mental effects
The game runs on a device known as the Basic Framework. The BF applies to allocating experience points and activating talents. It represents the cost. The BF runs from (-4) to (-4).
The following is an example of the BF.
Force, Energy, and Talents
Force (F): Maximum power tier you can use (unlocked by level).
Energy (EN): Resource you spend to activate talents.
Slots: Number of sustained combat talents you can keep active.
Force Energy Cost
F1 1/1
F2 4/2
F3 9/4
F4 16/8
One-shots never occupy a slot. Sustained effects do.
For experience, you pay for each increase. To achieve a star score of (+3) from (+0) I would pay 1 for a (+1), 4 more for a(+2) and 9 for a (+3). You pay for each step.
Examples
Name/description: Mage
Stats:
Str: -1
Dex: +3 (magic broach)
End: 0
Int: 1
Edu: +2 (mage college)
Cha: 0
Defenses:
AV: 13 (ring of protection)
HP: 6
Offense:
To Hit: +1 (melee fire burst), +5 (fireball)
Damage: d8 -1 (melee), d6 +3 (range)
Skills:
Attack: 2
Influence: -1
Knowledge: 2 (tome of magic)
Observation: 1
Outdoors: -1
Sneak: 1
Technology: 1
Vehicle: 0
Special Abilities:
Tactics: Player has no spells at this level, but the presence of magical attacks and magical descriptors fill this gap initially.
Name/description: The Hulk, Barbarian
Stats:
Str: +3 (mutation)
Dex: +1
End: +2 (mutation)
Int: 0
Edu: 0
Cha: -1
Defenses:
AV: 13 (thick skin)
HP: 8
Offense:
To Hit: +6 (fist), +3 (improvised range weapons)
Damage: d4 + 3. D4 + 1
Skills:
Attack: +2
Influence: +1
Knowledge: 0
Observation: +1
Outdoors: +2
Sneak; -1
Technology; 0
Vehicle; 0
Special Abilities: +1 (unarmed strike)
Tactics: When you build a (0) level character, you are not as tough as we see them in the movies. It's a starting build. I would add Ferocious Attack and Ablative armor as I level up.
Name/description: Ninja
Stats:
Str: (+2)
Dex: (+3) (Archetype)
End: (+1)
Int: (+2)
Edu: (0)
Cha: (0)
Defenses:
AV: 13(dodgy)
HP: 7
Offense:
To Hit: (+5)
Damage: 1d8 +2
Skills:
Attack: (+2)(specialized Training)
Influence: (0)
Knowledge: (0)
Observation: (+1)
Outdoors: (+1)
Sneak; (+2)
Technology; (0)
Vehicle; (-1)
Special Abilities: (+1) melee weapon (nunchuks)
Tactics: I would add Ambush, Alertness, Counterstrike.
Character Creation
Choose an Archetype. (optional) Sometimes known as classes or professions, these are typical examples of different Heroes you may play. Examples are Mage, Ninja, Hacker, and Sniper. These can be chosen at the start of play or later as you hone your Hero's concept.
Choose Species. You can play any Species you want.
3. Choose stats. The 6 attributes of a Hero are listed below. Think about what your Hero's concept is and how these might represent it.
4. Choose stats
Stats (St)
Strength - this represents melee attacks.
Dexterity - this represents making ranged attacks and controlling vehicles.
Endurance - this represents a character's ability to handle physically grueling tasks and affects hit points. It also reflects stamina. Ex. Hit points, staying alive below 0 hit points.
Intuition: this is knowing things beyond your education. This is that gut feeling you get or the ability to take disparate pieces of information and draw a conclusion. Ex. Initiative, solving problems.
Education - this is what you have learned in life. It could be a college education or experience.
Charisma: your ability to use your personality to get people to do your bidding. Ex: fast talk, intimidate, contacts.
For your character, you get to assign the scores (+3, +2, +1, 0, 0, -1). The assigned number is the score. This is paired with a descriptor (which explains the score, i. (+2) St - VAT muscle).
5. Choose skills
Skills (sk)
Skills work in conjunction with stats. Skills can be as short as an action in combat. They can also be much longer, depending on what you do. The GM will decide how long. PCs have every skill. NPCs might not. Skills are designed to be broad and simple to function effectively in various Multiverses. The skill is paired with the stat it modifies.
The Player background can affect skill rolls. Ex. Players are setting up an ambush by examining the terrain. I may give this a 14S. But the ex-soldier may get a bonus to their roll to reflect more knowledge of this.
Skills are listed as a broad category, the stat they are associated with, a description of the category, and examples of the skills in that category.
Skills start at 0. However, you must assign the following (+2, +2,+1,+1,+1, 0, 0, -1). Bonuses show where your Hero excels. Negatives provide a great opportunity for role-play and role-playing depth.
Athletics (endurance) - This is the skill regarding how the Hero completes certain phsical tasks. Swimming, running, jumping, climbing.
Attack skill (dex or str)- use this with all attacks. You purchase this skill once and apply it to all attacks actions, such as melee attacks or debuff talents.
Influence(charisma) - These are the face skills which use the force of personality to manipulate someone to do what you want. If I am intimidating someone to get my way, it's covered by this skill. Includes intimidate, interrogate, persuade, lie, etiquette, and diplomacy.
Knowledge (education): This is what the Hero knows about any given topic. Use this skill to research the net. Give a bonus to the Basic Roll if the topic is one the character would know about because of their background. An ex-cop would likely know police procedures and thus be a bonus to BR.
Observation (intuition) - use one or more of the five senses.
Outdoor (intuition) - tracking, survival, etc. Any skill for living and surviving in the outdoors.
Sneak (dexterity) - this is blending in in any setting. Maybe you make this roll at a dinner party to be quietly ignored or in a jungle from mercs gunning for you. This would include pickpocketing. You use this skill when trying to beat metal detectors and chemical sniffers. Ex. Stealth, pick pockets, sleight of hand
Technology (education) - These are skills that enable you to manipulate technology to do your bidding. For example, safe cracking, computer usage, lock picking, hacking, traps, and medicine.
Vehicle (dex) - drive, fly, or manipulate any vehicle. This includes animals, motor vehicles, drones, and spaceships.
Defenses:
6. Take 0 level adjustments : 10 +end HP, access F1 talents, 1 slot.
7. Add descriptors.
8. Pick contacts. 3 +/- charisma.
9. Pick reputation.
Talents
Talents are the engine that runs the game. You can use them to define how your Hero interacts with the world. They could be cyberwear that are items. They can represent spells you cast. Some could represent better living through superior chemistry: drugs.
Talents are paid with energy (see above chart)
Any player can buy a talent for 5xp per talent. Melee attacks use strength. Ranged attacks use dexterity. Players gain Talents as their level increases.
The following Types of Talents exist;
Technical: These talents are derived from technological/mechanical means. I could use the Fly talent as technology by calling it a Jet Pack.
Magical: These are inherent Talents. Many acts like spells, such as a fireball. I could take Fly as a magical ring. Heroes can start with Magical attacks. Melee attacks are free and use strength. Ranged attacks use Dex and cost energy to use based on range: Short = 1, Medium = 2, and Long = 3. These costs start at Level 1.
Racial: These are Talents derived from one's Species.
Archetype: These are Talents specific to the Archetype. For instance, the Barbarian Ferocious Attack.
When a Talent is used, it is "activated".
You can only use a Force according to your level.
Some attacks will use Athletics/Ego to resist. It is an 12 + Athletic/Ego + defense bonus. You can use several Talents at the same time.
Talents are powered by energy. This reflects the idea that energy is a limited resource. This could represent ammunition, battery power, or the amount of energy your body can expend.
Technical - this represents a limit imposed by literal energy: batteries, electricity, or a finite number of charges. I could take Heal using a med kit and energy would represent a number of uses.
Magical - this is the innate amount of magic you can power up. Heal would be limited by that innate power.
Some settings may eliminate certain talents. For instance, in a medieval setting, hacking doesn't exist. Any time a setting negatively affects the functioning of a talent, the player may substitute another talent.
Contacts
It's not what you know, but who you know. These are your contacts. You get 3 contacts +/- influence stat. Your contacts can provide work, information, equipment, etc. You can choose them during gameplay.
Flesh them out. How do you know them? Do you owe/are you owed favors? What is the nature of the relationship?
Some examples are: a journalist, a cop, a criminal, a bartender.
You can use Gold to obtain information, favors, and more.
Your contacts exist throughout the Multiverse. So if you have a bartender contact, you can use them in any setting. They would act similarly in each Multiverse.
Action economy
Attack action: an act designed to deal damage. This can come from a weapon or from utilizing a non-combat talent against a person. If the action is resisted by AV, Ego, or Athletics, it is an attack. Some talents use an attack action. May use attack action for an additional 30' of movement.
Skill action - Use a skill other than an attack. You can try to influence somebody, observe, pick locks, etc. If the GM feels you can do it during combat, then go for it. The GM should be liberal on this and keep the action moving. A skill action may be used to activate a talent. A GM might say the skill must be used for a set period to take effect. The Hero could still attack, but would use the skill action until the intended effect is completed. For instance, the Hero may be picking a lock and fighting.
Move Action: Players can move 30 feet per turn. Sometimes a move action may power another action, such as activating a healing talent. This eliminates your ability to move. It takes up 15 feet of movement to stand. Heroes can use alternative forms of movement: teleport, jump, skate, etc., as long as it doesn't result in an advantage over a standard move. The effect would still act as a standard move but would be more cinematic. This means I can't end the move off the floor. If I want to jump on a roof, I then must buy the talent to do so.
Free Action: you can talk, but it becomes a skill action if you want the target to act on your words. Draw Weapon. Move 5' once without triggering a reactive strike.
Combat Talent Activation - You can activate a Combat Talent. It costs an activation if it is a one-shot or sustained. You get two combat talent activation actions.
Reaction - some talents can be a response to something the opponent does. You have one reaction per turn. You can also use a reaction to interrupt an opponent's turn if you have actions left.
In combat, each turn lasts 10 seconds.
Status Effects
Prone
Cover
Tripped
Disarm
Movement
There are 3 movement intervals:
Strategic - this is counted in hours. This is when broad moves are being planned, such as traveling over long distances
Tactical - this is counted in minutes. Strategic movement ends when you reach the point where you need to slow down as confrontation gets closer.
Combat - this is combat and is measured in turns.
In a fantasy setting, strategic intervals would move you around the map for days, hours, or weeks. When you enter the dungeon, you go tactical. When you confront your enemy, it's combat.
A Hero may move 30' as a move action. The player is considered to be running full out. The Hero may move an additional 30' as a sprint for an attack action. A Hero may make a 5' Adjustment step each turn. Sprinting is an action. Standing from a prone position costs 15 feet of movement and is part of a move action.
Combat turn - 30' full tilt
15' walking
Tactical turn (1 minute) - 180' full tilt
90' walking
Strategic - 3 miles per hour
Full tilt penalizes sneak and observation checks.
Reputation:
This is how people see you. It's a few adjectives or a sentence. The statements don't even need to be true. They are merely how others perceive you.
For example: 1. Violent temper. 2. Kind to children. 3. Chatty.
Hit points
Players have 10 hit points modified by the end stat at "0" level and 6 HP per level thereafter. Each increase includes the adjustment for endurance. An Endurance increase is retroactive.
Level
See Level progression under The Basic Heroes Handbook.
Healing
To heal in combat takes a move action. I could shoot a gun and heal in the same turn. Success is automatic and stabilizes below 0 HP as a move action. Out of combat, you heal the max, but it takes one minute. Through natural healing, a Hero fully heals after sleep and regains all energy points.
Trauma patches. These are medical devices that you use when wounded. It takes an attack action, and you can use as many as you want at once. It costs 2 Gold per Trauma Patch and it heals 2d4 per patch.
Player Death
A Hero with "0" HP can only take a move action. After a Hero drops below zero hit points no matter how far below "0", they have a -1 HP total. They start bleeding out. Each turn, they lose 1HP. At -5, they die. On each turn, the Hero rolls to stabilize using their endurance stat as a modifier. The TN is 11s. A Hero can spend a Credit to automatically stabilize.
Assisting
Two Heroes can help complete a skill. Use the better skill paired to the better stat. One Hero rolls the attempt.
If you fail a non-combat skill, you can try again. This adds +2 to the TN.
Combat
Attack works like this.
The formula is:
Str/Dex + attack skill + Range or Melee weapon enhancement + modifier vs target number of 12 modified by defensive bonus + defense = Defense.
Range weapons can be used at point-blank range with a (-2) modifier to the attack.
Grappling - see Grappling Talent
Here are a few combat modifiers which cost nothing to use:
Flank - (+2) to hit, when you are adjacent and attack an opponent when another Hero is also adjacent to that opponent. Both Heroes can benefit.
Cover (+2) to AV when making a ranged attack while behind a solid object.
Threat Response - if you leave an area that another player/enemy can reach, they get a free attack against you if they have a reaction left.
Defense
Defense = 12 + defense bonus + Defense rating
Heroes start with a Defense rating of 1 and a Defense of 13. Defense rating is a score from 1 to 9. Hereos get level 1 for free. Defense ratins are increased by the following table: 2 for 2, 2 for 3, 4 for 4, 5 for 4, 6 for 8, and 8 for 9. Defense can represent various types of armor, a high ability to evade attack. Let's say I wore level-one leather armor. That would make the dfense 13. Defense is a game mechanic. Things like a shield would be a part of that number if you chose. Examples of armor include leather and plate armor. Hides, amulet, off-hand weapon, Kevlar. Leather could be (+3), and plate could be (+1). Your choice of armor type doesn't lessen or increase the Defense. Your Defense could also be an effect caused by your innate ability to dodge attacks.
Initiative
Players roll d20 +/- (intuition modifier). Ties go to the Heroes. The Heroes initiative is based on the Heroes' best initiative roll.
Weapons
Just like anything else, the points you pay for equal the quality and thus the bonus. The enhancement applies to ranged or Melee. This is bought for each. The player starts with a (+1) in one weapon type.
A weapon can be magical. My weapon could be a fire bolt, a psychic blade, lightning, poison, or cold. Magic attacks are considered melee attacks and do melee damage. A Hero can pay 1 energy to extend it to short, 2 for medium, and 3 for long range. This then uses dexterity for the attack. Once this is paid, it lasts the length of the combat. A Hero could increase the range during play by paying the difference. So a short would cost 1 point. If I made it medium, I would pay only 1 point. This creates a ranged attack which uses Dex and does d4 damage. The increase in range lasts for Combat + 5 minutes.
Weapons gain a bonus to hit and damage rolls.
A weapon modifies the attack skill and, therefore, can be used with a ranged or melee weapon. You pay only once for the skill.
A weapon is purchased like any other skill or stat. Weapons are a big part of the game. Personalize them. I don't have a Pistol. Instead, it's a Fortune Arms 540A 9mm with the Kandid Grip and semi-automatic capabilities. My melee weapon is a Keolon Era longsword. It's fun and good RP.
Equipment
Heroes are assumed to have whatever equipment they need to use their skills. It's better to assume Heroes have what they need most of the time.
We could spend days defining hero money and how to spend it. Instead, use the campaign's logic. What do they need to accomplish their goals? Maybe you get most things free, but have to role-play obtaining a specific piece of equipment or spend Credits. Once again, the idea is to spend more time playing and less time shopping. We want to encourage creativity. If the players come up with a cool plan, assume they have the materials to execute it or charge Credits to make it happen. Assume each player has an "equipment bag" that contains the equipment they need to play the game. It contains everything they think the player may need, but you don't want to spend a lot of time filling it out. If the character wants a piece of equipment, the question should be asked, "Is this something I would have put on my sheet for this Hero?" In an RP sense, is this something the player could reasonably be assumed to have? Alternatively, players could spend Credits on specialty equipment.
Items are essentially equipment and cost nothing to have. I don't pay money for the armor itself. I pay for the score and the item would be whatever armor I wanted to call it.
In modern and science fiction environments (Cyberpunk, Space opera), heroes would have a vehicle and a home for free.
Proxy - Item that stands in for the player. A weapon proxy is a weapon like any other. You use the proxy instead of a sword or other objects. This proxy uses your stats, and you take the damage dealt to it. It conforms to weapon rules. For example, you could use an animal, a drone, or a spirit as a proxy. Any damage to the simple proxy damages the wielder. If the proxy attacks a target next to you, it is a melee attack. The proxy can attack out to short range as a ranged attack using ranged attack damage and DEX.
Credits
This represents several resources for the party. This is a resource for all members to use during adventures to buy special items, pay off NPCs, etc. Credits are how Heroes are paid for their efforts. An NPC will negotiate the mission price with the party. That price becomes a number of Credits the party will earn at the end of each play session. Credits may be negotiated with an upfront amount, ready for immediate use. Keep in mind this is a per-session amount. If I negotiate 10 Credits, I get that amount for every session played. Each Hero would have their own credits to spend. The group should also put away credits to purchase items that benefit the group. Unused Credits do not roll over into the next session.
Heroes automatically have a vehicle and a place to live.
Missions grant 4000 Credits on average. Easy missions might cost less than more difficult ones. This is subject to negotiation. This amount is granted after each playing session.
Pay off a contact - 1 credit will get basic information, more could yield more detailed information. 3+ Credits will get a favor from a Contact, such as referring them to someone else who can help, finding a tricky piece of gear, or performing an action for them.
A Hero can spend 1000 Credits to buy a grenade.
Sneak a small weapon by security. Based on security level. Less than (0), 500 credits. 1000 for (0), and F * 2.
"Legitimate" ID. (AKA, Global Relevant Identification Number or GRIN) Many settings require a legal ID to pay for items, bribe contacts, purchase drones, or vehicle upgrades. An ID costs (0)/1000, 2/4000, 3/9000, 4/16000 per month. GRINs require a steady income to cover housing, food, and other essentials. Your GRIN level is also reflected in the way you live. Any time you make a purchase, your GRIN is scrutinized. The seller's security level is compared with the GRIN's level. For instance, if the seller has a (-2) and my GRIN is (+1), I have a (+2) to my roll. The TN to beat your Identity is 18S. Roll only when it would affect play. Grocery shopping, no. Getting into the cool club or a multinational, absolutely.
Cover Identity - Half the cost for a legitimate Global Relevant Identification Number (GRIN). Max F3. Preestablished paper/identification for the adventure. Usable until burned, which occurs when the GRIN fails a security check. Also, any crimes associated with the GRIN remain active.
Rumor Mill - 1000 Credits, social interaction reveals a solid, reliable lead. Twice per session.
2G would yield a home with a (+2) value.
Name Drop - 1000 Credits
Invoke a known organization, Guild contact, or fixer. Gain +2 to Influence for this interaction. 1000 Credits
Leverage - 2000 Credits. Turn a neutral NPC into a temporary ally for the scene (cooperative, not loyal).
Call in a Favor - 500 Credits. A contact intervenes off-screen: distraction, transport, safe house, or gear hookup.
Bad Reputation - 1500 Credits. Your reputation precedes you; hostile NPCs hesitate or give you a brief opening.
Bribery - Spend Credits to bribe NPCs. An Influence 11S check reveals what constitutes a reasonable bribe.
A simple drone proxy would make it useful for a range attack and is free.
Heroes can buy a Drone for 1500 gold for surveillance purposes. It is destroyed after taking 10HP. Observation 17S.
Treasure
Some people would argue that loot is the whole point of adventuring. This is a challenge in this system because money doesn't exist. This is handled in 2 ways. The first is through Credits. This gives Heroes more effective ways to operate during a mission. The second is through treasure. These are items that are found during the adventure. It takes at least 1 minute to search for treasure. If you spend more time, you increase your chances of finding it by decreasing the Observation TN by (-2). Once found your Chronoline, it will tell you what it is and how it works. Treasure is a party resource. This means any player can use a treasure. It's not considered to be held by any one Hero.
Vehicle combat
A vehicle can be defined in 2 ways: as a vehicle or as a drone. A vehicle has a driver. A drone is piloted remotely using the Control Drone talent. A vehicle can function both ways.
A drone costs 1500 credits. You choose the size at purchase.
The following stats define a vehicle.
Size: (see chart)
Mode: (ground or flying vehicle)
Str: speed
Dex - maneuverability
Hit Points: The vehicle has hit points based on its size.
Defense - normal costs but the size of a vehicle factors into how hard it is to hit. Take the reverse stat for size. Ie (-4) size adds (+4) to AV. So a microdrone would have an AV of 11 + 4 (size).
All vehicles start with stats of (0). Players can spend experience to buy up the 2 stats and AV. You can take negatives in stats to boost other stats. A player gains 3 points/XP to modify the vehicle/Drone. These can be reallocated before starting the vehicle/Drone.
GM will determine acceptable sizes for the campaign.
Speed in combat is relative. Out of combat various modes of travel have their own speeds. Use logic or internet guidelines.
Size/HP/Armaments
(-4) Micro - the size of a bee/2/none
(-3) Up to the size of 2 loaves of bread/4/pistol
(-2) The size of a person/8/medium
(-1) Motorcycle/medium
(0) - Car/20/long
(+1) Minivan)SUV/30
(+2) Full size truck/ 6 seater airplane/helicopter/40
(+3) Semi/mid sized plane/ Attack Helicopter/80
(+4) Full sized jet/120
Speed in combat is relative.
When operating a vehicle, use your skill and the vehicle stats. For mental stats it's all the Hero.
Players can use Ablative Armor Talent. It is bought for use by the drone only and costs as a One Shot in terms of energy and lasts through the combat. One player captains the vehicle. Each player man's a gun. Combat takes turns. A vehicle can also be a person.
Start with a range of 1 to 5,
0 being adjacent to 5 far away.
Short range is 0 to 1. Medium to 3. Long to 5.
Later: "AV = 11 + level adjustment + (Armor*2)." is (armor *2) +1 for medium, (+2) long +/- size.
The players roll initiative based on the pilot. The pilot goes first and must pick from the following maneuvers;
For every 25% of damage to the Vehicle/Drone, all roles suffer a(+2) to TN and a (-2) to AV. The driver/pilot also loses 25% of their current HP if they are utilizing the vehicle as a drone.
Attack
Vehicles operate on the driver's initiative. The Driver makes a modified c11 vehicle roll. Each success increases the given effect. Vehicle gunners can use standard per turn actions, but can't use a move action to move. The vehicle/drone has as many firearms as there are players in the combat. The vehicle/drone can have one permanent armament used by the pilot and subjected to size restrictions.
Offense - (-2) to vehicle AV and (+1)/success to the pool for attack or damage. For instance, with 3 successes I might opt for (+2) attack and (+1) damage. All attacks by the occupants gain these bonuses. Max (+3 in total bonuses.)
Defense - (-2) to attack. (+1) added to vehicle AV per success. Max (+3).
Stand pat - the captain opts to make an attack this round. He must make a successful Vehicle skill check to continue the pursuit safely.
Flee/pursue - Range is relative. If you can see it, you can technically hit it. Fleeing establishes range penalties until you are no longer a viable target. The base TN is 11. Every roll 2 above that creates a(-1) range penalty against your enemy. Pursue eliminates those penalties. Compare the strength of each Vehicle. Take the difference between the 2 vehicles. The superior strength adds the difference to flee/pursue A vehicle is considered out of range after 2 failed attacks or 6 + range. It has either moved too far or is obstructed.
Use Drone/vehicle Dex and player's Vehicle skill for rolls. This creates an opposed test with a TN of 11. For each 90 degree turn the player's TN increases by 2.
Vehicle combat is cinematic. The GM can add obstructions or modify the course as needed.
Destroyed drones are repaired for 5 Credits.
The Rating
We determine various traits using (- 4) to (+4). As a GM I don't want to have to calculate the size of a village or the security level of a city. The game doesn't want to bog down on some details. Instead you can define everything from (-4) to (+4). This is the rating. Remember 0 is average. So let's say you want to know the population of a given city. Small might be a (-4), a huge city (+4). You define most things this way; wealth levels, tech levels ect. The number could be used to alter TN value x 2. For instance, if I defined the police force as a (+2) I could add 4 to that number to TNs when encountering security forces.
The value can be used for modifying TN.
Adventuring in the Multiverse Adventurers Guild
Many Talents last 5 minutes after combat and renew the timeline when combat occurs again. This leaves the Heroes with some choices to make in terms of activities. Do they make a search for treasure that could cost them the time they need to renew the clock? The following speaks to that timeline.
Search - this would allow the heroes to search for treasure, traps, and secret doors with one roll though the TN may vary for each. This takes one minute. For each additional minute the TNs reduce by 2. Each player rolls separately if they are involved in this task. This allows the search of one room or hallway, regardless of size. A Hero can only find one item per search. So if there were multiple items (2 treasures and a secret door) it would take multiple searches or Heroes to find it all. Lower TN items are found first.
Heal - this allows the Hero to take the max heal. This takes one minute. If the effect is granted by another Hero, that hero must spend one minute of time as well.
Travel - a party can move 100' per minute at walking speed twice that if they run.
Door - it takes no time if the door is not locked or blocked.
Breech - if the door is locked or somehow blocked this is the action. It takes 1 minute to breach a door. This could be done by picking a lock, using brute force, or explosives. The GM determines a TN for each of the actions. Each extra minute you spend breaching reduces the relevant TN by 2.
Analyze Treasure - this is how you learn what that piece of treasure does. This takes one minute and utilizes Chronoline Node.
