Building Creatures

Building a monster can be as simple as assigning a few numbers or as detailed as you want. A creature's Attack can be negative for balance. See the Dragon, for example. A high-Strength monster that should not hit all the time could have a negative Attack score to counter its Strength.

Super Simple: Use one number for all Stats, AV, and weapons. This is good for creating creatures on the fly.

Simple: Use one number for physical Stats and another for mental Stats, then assign AV, HP, and weapons.

Standard: Apply scores in every category. A Standard creature can easily be generated using the character creation app.

Creature Classifications

PCs - The player-controlled Heroes.

NPCs - Characters created by the GM. They can help or hinder PCs.

Minions - Enemies that use the rules in the Minions section below.

Monsters - NPC adversaries that can be reasoned with or killed. They do not follow character creation rules.

Most humanoid enemies are built like PCs. Some enemies are more fantastic and have Stats exceeding +4. Many low-level threats will have negative numbers. Enemies can have Talents as well, and their Talents may be permanent.

Creature Example

The shortest format is:

(Attack/Damage), (AV), (HP)

Giant: +6/12/12

A more specific Giant might look like this:

Strength: +8

Dexterity: -1

Endurance: +3

Education: -3

Intuition: 0

Influence: -2

Skills

Melee: +1

Enhancements: +1

Talents

Fly F3 (permanent)

NPCs are not created with point buy like PCs. NPCs can also have abilities outside the rules. You could build a dragon using Talents, rule that it has a 2d6 fireball usable every 3 turns, or give it three separate attacks: claw, claw, and bite. Use what works. The goal is to keep creatures simple and easy to plug into your campaign.

This system makes it easy to create opponents while allowing a high degree of creativity.

Minions

Minions allow the GM to use greater numbers of enemies that are easy to kill. They can force tactical decisions: Do the Heroes take them out first? Do the Minions get in the way of other actions? When a Minion is hit, it dies.

The following rules apply to Minions:

Minions form groups of 2 to 5.

Each group gains a +1 Attack bonus per member. A group of 4 has a +4 bonus to hit.

The entire group deals 1d6 damage.

AV is 2 lower than the base creature's AV. A Goblin Scrapper Minion with a base AV of 14 has 12 AV.

The group fights using one attack roll.

The group attacks as a whole and can combine melee and ranged attacks. Minions are not limited by being adjacent to the target, and a group can contain both melee and ranged weapons.

As groups suffer casualties, survivors rearrange into a smaller number of groups. The last surviving group members will often flee or surrender.

All groups of Minions are assumed to be adjacent to one another. This rule applies only to Minions, not non-Minion characters.

Minions go last in turn order.

Minions are susceptible to Influence attempts such as Intimidation.

Minions cannot make reactive strikes.

Minions are easily identified.

Adjusting Creatures

Creatures can be modified on the fly to make them weaker or stronger based on the Heroes' abilities. The easiest adjustment is increasing or decreasing HP or AV.
